Perth Australia - The Wellington Hurricanes stole a one-point victory with the last play of the match over the Western Force in an enthralling Super 14 encounter at Subiaco Oval here Friday night.
The Force ran in four tries to three and seemed to have the match in their keeping when they led 27-16 with just over three minutes to play against the only New Zealand side without a Super 14 rugby win here.
However, the Hurricanes produced two late tries to snatch a 27-28 victory that dealt a huge blow to the Force's hope of reaching the finals.
The Force played superb attacking rugby to get to within reach of victory, running in four tries to one in the first 76 minutes of the match.
However, David Smith gave the Hurricanes late hope when he spun out of several tackles to score his team's second try in the 77th minute.
Although Willie Ripia converted to cut the deficit to just four points, the Force still looked set to hang on as time ticked away.
But 32 seconds after the full-time hooter, and in the eighth phase of the play as the Hurricanes pressed determinedly, Cory Jane capitalised on a clever dummy by Tamati Ellison and was able to cross the line in the corner.
With their next three games at home, the Hurricanes are well-placed heading into the latter stages of the season.ADVERTISINGinRead invented by Teads
While the Force managed to secure two bonus points, it was of little consolation to their shattered players.
Hurricanes captain Rodney So'oialo could scarcely believe his team had stolen the win.
"The boys really stuck to it and I am very proud of them," he said.
"In the middle of that game we had no ball at all.
"They made it very hard for us."
His Force counterpart, Nathan Sharpe, lamented the fact the Force didn't quite last the full 80 minutes.
"It was disappointing to let it slip like that at the end," he said.
"The 'Canes threw everything at us in the last 15 minutes.
"But we have to be able to close games out."
Emerging speedster Nick Cummins, 21, set the Force alight early when he ran in his first two tries in Super 14 rugby in the first half, before being forced from the field just after the break with what appeared to be a groin injury.
Cummins' tries helped the Force to an early 17-6 lead, with the Hurricanes cutting the deficit at the break through a late Zac Guildford try.
The Force took just three minutes into the second half to open a commanding lead when Ryan Cross bullocked across while the visitors were a man down with Neemia Tialata in the sin bin.
Up 27-13 in front of their biggest home crowd of the season, it seemed the Force were destined for the top four with their second successive win, until Smith stepped up to inspire a great escape for Wellington. - AFP