The Auckland Blues banked an important bonus point from a 36-12 win over South Africa's Lions in Super 14 rugby on Friday.
Anthony Tuitavake, Rudi Wulf and Joe Rokocoko, who all spent time on the wing for New Zealand last season, were among the Auckland tryscorers as the Blues moved from ninth to fifth place on the championship ladder at the start of the tournament's ninth round.
Wulf marked his first match of the current season - after spending eight weeks sidelined with a broken wrist - with two second-half tries while Tuitavake and Rokocoko also touched down in a comprehensive but flawed win.
Scrumhalf Chris Smylie scored the first of the Blues tries and engineered the second, to Tuitavake, which boosted their lead to 14-0 at halftime. Replacement Peter Saili scored the last of Auckland's six tries seven minutes from fulltime.
The Johannesburg-based Lions made a small impression with two second-half tries.
"It was a big turnaround after our bye week," Blues captain and All Blacks hooker Keven Mealamu said.
"It was great the way the boys stepped up this week and now we have to continue stepping up."
Auckland commanded both territory and possession throughout the match but more than 12 handling mistakes limited the effectiveness of the backline in the first half and cast more doubt on the Blues' credentials as title challengers.
Many of Auckland's deficiencies were in midfield, particularly at inside centre, where All Blacks regular Isaia Toeava had a mixed game.ADVERTISINGinRead invented by Teads
The Lions made 133 tackles but missed 33 in a performance which fuelled the Blues' ambitious attacking style.
"We played the possession right, we played at the right end of the field but it didn't quite come off for us for a lot of the game," Mealamu said.
Smylie scored the Blues' first try after nine minutes then brilliantly constructed the second with an inside break and strong run from a turnover created by All Blacks prop John Afoa. Toeava converted both.
Wulf scored in the 42nd and 71st minutes, first off a Toeava chipkick and later from a charge down of an attempted clearance by Lions flyhalf Andre Pretorius.
Rokococko scored in the 49th minute and Saili made the win comprehensive with his late try.
Winger Henno Mentz and halfback Jano Vermaark scored late consolation tries for the visitors.
Scores:
Auckland 36 (Rudi Wulf 2, Chris Smylie, Anthony Tuitavake, Joe Rokocoko, Peter Saili tries; Isaia Toeava 3 conversions), Lions 12 (Henno Mentz, Jano Vermaark tries; Andre Pretorius conversion). HT: 14-0. - Sapa-AP